so normally for these videos I have a
sponsor have a lot of sponsors on the
channel and they're great I typically
only like sponsors on the channel that I
myself can rightfully endorse I don't
really want to advertise some product
and I don't know or I don't understand
or don't necessarily like to begin with
however today's sponsor well Lee correct
I'm not exaggerating for this whatsoever
I really have not opened these and just
opened them right now this video is
sponsored by the deck of many and they
have these amazing beautiful spell cards
that are animated look at scorching ray
look at that you can imagine imagine
sitting around the table and you witness
a bad boy and you're like I guess
scorching rain ever it was like holy
crap uh here's invisibility uh they hold
it up and you might be like oh well they
don't have I don't know yeah there's a
few in here they it can't possibly have
nearly almost all the spells in the game
um here's a here's here's sacred flame I
you know I never knew what sacred flame
looked like I'm freaking out over the
heat spare the dying is a pigeon Oh
pigeon and if you thought yeah you know
oh there's not that many I'm sorry uh
here's another one um here's here's some
more this is this is the deck of many
things these are so cool I am I'm just
absolutely go check out deck of many
calm and check out their animated spells
they are these aren't incredible for the
table they're so immersive and they
really bring a lot to the game big props
to these guys for making these these are
just really cool so go check it out
anyways let's get into this video
alright so today we're going to be
sitting on the floor and talking about
homebrew rules the ones that are using
my games we do a little POV session here
let's let's pretend you you have come
over to my house and we're gonna start
playing D&D and I'm telling you all the
rules I'm your Dungeon Master so I mean
we all roleplay we can pretend right oh
hey
I didn't see you there so you wanna play
I can't do this we're gonna we're gonna
go over all the rules that I put in my
campaigns and I guess if you were a
player in my game this is all the rules
that you would normally abide by if you
want to watch any of these games right I
do that you can go check it out on
arcade you know it's a new homebrew
thing and B I use these [__] cards
guys holy [__] alright so character
creation rules typically I don't like to
be too strict on character creation but
most of these are from experience I like
to stick to as much as possible but
sometimes there's a rule that I just
don't like or just doesn't work and I
just change it so I have reasons for all
of them so I'll let you know there
anyways homebrew upon review or approval
I have had people use homebrew I just
want to be able to read it beforehand
and same thing goes for hunters they're
Cana sometimes it's can be a little
ridiculous and or it doesn't fit into
the setting of my game and I just don't
want it there so that's always just up
for approval any source book is fine if
it's from a book it's okay I don't care
if you want to play a lizard folk
Shepherd rude as long as it's from the
books then I considered it official and
I'll put it in the game that's fine with
me
for hit points we don't do the average I
often find that the average tends to add
a lot of hit points to characters and I
like there to be this kind of randomness
to it I think it's more fun and so
everybody rolls when they level up on
their head dice and you ignore ones
that's I stole that from Matthew Mercer
so if you're all the one you get to
re-roll it and if you roll another one
you get to re-roll it the minimum you
can get isn't to betting on the campaign
I often do level one racial feats from
Santa thar's guy however there can be
races that don't have beats so you can
just pick one that fits the best or is
there some homebrew ones that you can
look up as well like I might be able to
spin lucky for a halfling or a keen mind
for a gnome so just depending on
whatever you want I always do variant
encumbrance I know a lot of people don't
like it but I think that the current
regular encumbrance for fifth edition is
purely meant for the ease of pen and
paper however most of my players use
online tools like D&D beyond to manage
their character stats and if if we're
doing that I prefer very encumbrance
because it's much more gritty version of
managing your character's inventory and
I think that there's a lot of fun too
had with well we can't carry this what
are we going to do with it and very
encumbrance is just far more realistic
when it comes to characters and whatnot
I just prefer it it also gives a lot of
use two bags of holding or characters
with strength I favor strength a lot I
defer to athletics over acrobatics more
often than not because Dex has a very
strong point in fifth edition' armor
class and initiative and dexterity
saving throws which are really important
and strength is just kind of down there
so carry weight is really important and
I think it should be important and I
want strength to be an important feat so
your party's much little weaklings
consider playing a Goliath now they can
carry tree trunks on their backs no
mistakes no mistakes
no no mistakes in short I guess they're
just too powerful and unbalanced no evil
characters unless I know you're
experienced in the game and can pull it
off I have some people who are very
experienced under the Dragons and can
very much pull off an evil character and
have them care about the party and not
be a murder hobo meanwhile some people
just want to play evil characters just
to be evil which I don't prefer if
you're gonna come to me if the character
concept and be like I'm evil I would
encourage you to play something a little
bit more good I don't mind if you're
gonna play somebody's morally neutral
but somebody who just enjoys killing
people or did evil things in their past
and is looking to redeem themselves I
really like that no secret characters
all the players get to know your race
class and background the characters may
not know what their exact traits class
and background may be but the players
definitely get to know because I don't
like having secret characters nobody's
going to get to pretend to be a paladin
when you're actually a warlock I don't
like that I think it makes for terrible
party compositions because if you come
to the table and you don't know what
everybody else is playing and you end up
doubling up on characters it can be kind
of disheartening
so beforehand we'd always do a session 0
and everybody knows that everybody's
playing and then you may work in your
story with your characters however you
like intelligence proficiency points
this is my own rule that I came up with
because of my intelligence is dumb video
effectively if you have an intelligence
your intelligence modifier determines
your scale points kind of like in the
old editions so if you have a modifier
of three you get three new skill or tool
proficiencies or languages you may also
use three of those points to gain
expertise and it goes both ways if you
have a negative
you have an 8 and intelligence you need
to lose a proficiency um and of course
we use milestone what's up - boy
milestones the level 3 I also having a
tunic rule I find the default attunement
rules to be strange typically in terms
of dragons I don't like things that I
can that I can't explain I really like
when the book gives me a way to explain
how this thing works mostly because I'm
lazy and I'm not very imaginative and I
like to have a picture in my head
because I'm a very visual person I don't
like that a tomb it takes an hour I know
it does that for game mechanics and I
just don't understand it I guess it's so
you can't do it in combat or you have to
spend time with the item but I always
run into the problem of how what are you
doing with the item if it's just a rod
were you and poking every bit of it
staring at it like what are you doing
concentrating meditating what about
characters that don't on a meditator
it's like what does this even mean so
instead I go I double down on the idea
that it's a game mechanic and you may
attune to an unindicted an action and to
run a tune from an item it takes ten
minutes if a character is already
attuned to an item and another character
wants to tune to them it's ten minutes
um come back combat stuff there I have a
lot of combat rules actually so flanking
skill checks this is my other video that
I made called flanking is dumb and I've
implemented it and I kind of like it
sorry Cody I haven't been using a +1
modifier maybe I should but I don't want
to swallow my pride instead I do a
flanking skill check if you want to
flank in my games you can though I
require you to describe how you're
flanking and you must make a skill check
that beats the armor class of the
creature that you are flanking in order
to succeed your advantage rule I do this
because I want players to be more
creative and more descriptive with what
they do in comment I don't like the war
game II just I go here I attack I roll
dice it's just not as fun to me
we don't use diagonals the whole like 5
it goes like 5 15 20 30 it's it scales
up every other hex to be geometrically
accurate and we did run with it for a
little while and I really liked it and
then it just became really difficult I
prefer combat to be very quick and very
fast-paced so that you can we can
get on through each turn as quick as
possible because it's combat it's
supposed to be fast and this whole
diagonal rule just made everything
really complicated and we just screw it
like it's just too annoying to deal with
bloodied if an npc is below half hit
points I don't tell them their hit
points but I do tend to tell them when
they're bloodied which is about half
health massive damage this is kind of a
rule I made up I I don't really know if
it's in the DMS got it I've altered it
heavily I think I don't know if it's in
the DMS guide you can call me up but
effectively it you'll have 80 hit points
let's say and you take 40 damage from
one attack then that can rack up two
poisons to magic to anything if you take
half your health you need to succeed a
DC 15 Constitution saving throw
otherwise you will take a massive damage
system shock roll so the DMS guy there's
a little table and they they range from
falling to zero hit points to not being
able to take reactions one of them is
stunned - it's pretty bad the way I
always interpret it is as in immense
pain it's just an immense amount of pain
that you've taken all at once and your
character has to like struggle to hold
on to do it I also do lingering injuries
and lingering injury happens if you take
half your hit points but you hit zero so
if you have 80 hit points and you're at
40 and then you take 40 damage you're at
zero now you have to make that con save
and if you fail you take a lingering
injury and the way I always describe it
as if it's it's if it's really bad the
enemy basically like cuts off your arm
as they drop you to zero or they stab
you in the eye but I find that to be
less of a harsher way to use massive
damage and it's just what happens when
you take a [__] ton of damage and you
know that's what I think it should be so
another one that I really love and my
players have grown to really love is the
DM me often rolls death saving throws
players do not see their death saving
throws at all in my games I roll them
behind the screen and I do not fudge
them because that would be awful but
what it does is it creates a massive
sense of urgency in combat when a player
goes down it comes to their next turn
imagine you're a player and your fighter
has gone to zero hit points and it
that fighters turn and he go okay roll
it death saving throw but the DM rolls
it in secret
you have no idea if they've rolled a 1
or an 18 the only way you'll really know
is if they get a natural 20 because the
natural 20 will bring them back to one
hit point so they'll just spontaneously
come to life but it really creates these
amazing unforgettable tense situations
in comment that I absolutely love and it
also creates panic the clips there
people will actually go to heal you
because well you never know what you're
at you could be at 30 you could be dead
already
and by the time they get over to you try
to heal you who knows if you're still
alive so I recommend using that when
players can also if they don't have any
healing can go to unconscious allies and
may roll medicine checks in order to
keep them alive though the medicine
checks did not stabilize them the
medicine checks instead count as a death
saving throw towards them so if they
roll below a 10 they fail and make it
worse and if they roll above a 10 then
they give them a success so that's one
way the players can also kind of help to
keep their buddies alive without
necessarily being a healer that's why
you can also take the healer fee and you
can also get a medicine kit or have some
health potions there's lots of ways that
you can keep your buddies life I'm
sprint this is a rule from Pathfinder I
think and star finder on your turn you
sacrifice your entire turn all your
bonus your bonus actions your actions
your movement your everything you can do
not your actions but everything that you
can do and you move in a straight line
it has to be straight line and you move
up to five times your speed so if your
speed is 30 you get to go 150 feet all
of the movement you make provokes
opportunity tax and the opportunity tax
are at advantage so it is not an ideal
thing to use in combat while you're in
the middle of a fight it's more of a
thing that you can use to catch up to
the combat this one has been really fun
because it's so dumb to just be like
well you'll get there in eight turns and
if you want to be real about it all the
speeds in D&D if you just divide them by
ten or the miles per hour speed so an
average person could easily run 15 miles
an hour which is 150 feet in six seconds
so I mean yeah I moved in three miles an
hour is like just like a just like a
it's nothing so um you're gonna allow
your players to run in combat if you
want tuned I think it adds a lot more to
the comment and can make it a little bit
more interesting and also remember that
the enemies can also run so there's
always that oh yeah that also applies to
my massive damage rule the massive
damage and the lingering injuries also
apply to the NPC's in my game as well
typically I don't do it with like
enemies that just die in one hit it's
like okay cut off his arm who cares but
I'm like bid big baddies are giant
monsters or any kind of other people
they're fighting they also take the the
lingering injuries and all that kind of
stuff because it's the only fair karthik
inspiration that's what I called it
we don't use inspiration in my games
what we do is complicate it I don't like
default inspiration because I feel like
it's just an advantage reroll that
people don't even really ever use so for
a long time we used a Bartok inspiration
so if you got inspiration it was a d6 a
d8 or a d-10 depending on your level
that you got to add to your roll those
are also forgetting a lot I also forgot
to give them out to my players so we've
come up with a new way we really really
really like and we've been using for
forever knows at the beginning of the
game or whenever I decide to award them
everybody gets a card from just a deck
of cards and we have like these really
big ones they're like they're like these
giant like Jumbo cards and I pass them
out to all the players and they have a
number on the back of them it's a deck
of cards and what they get to do is they
get to use that card and add it to any
dice roll that they they want to before
if I say they succeeded or failed of
course but after they roll face cards
are 10 2 through 10 is the number that
is the number is the value and an ace is
a crit so if you get that a so you get a
crits and it's pretty fun yeah it's
pretty interesting because you never
know what's behind the card and you
always also always have it right in
front of you so he's remember that you
have it and my players always get
desperate for them they're just like oh
we got to use a card and it's been
pretty fun so I I recommend it ok spells
I don't homebrew a whole lot of spells
because I just like them I think most of
the spells are very balanced some of
them are a little ridiculous but I mean
you ever think of spells ridiculous
double check if it's concentration
it's not ridiculous anymore if you can
just focus down the guy who's got
concentration one spell I do change and
I I know a lot of people change it is
healing spirit it's from Santa Thor's
guide and the only thing I really change
with it is that it must be used in
combat don't have an in-game way to
explain that maybe it's the fact that
they if they're fighting or something
like that the spirit is like its own
thing and it kind of comes out of the
ranger or druid casting it to heal their
friends around them but they can't use
it outside of combat as a free 76 pool
of health but it can't be used in combat
it's like a strategic little symbol of
healing that you can do in the middle of
fighting all right role playing for role
playing you only have a few one of them
being inciting players you can incite
other players if you want to but I I
don't make them role anything I leave it
up to that player so if for example a
player says no I don't want to go to the
dungeon and the Barbarian goes I'm gonna
roll insight and roles insight I look at
the player go
it's up to you tell them what you think
depending on what they rolled or don't
say anything at all because I leave it
up to them I'm not going to tell other
players what another character is
thinking that's up to them that's their
role play I don't want to take that away
from them another thing is deceiving
players you can role deception
against inciting players that is always
an option if somebody's inside and you
can rule that deception to just be like
now let's see if I get away with it and
if not then the player can kind of DM it
for themselves be like okay you can tell
I'm lying or I'm you do you believe me
or something along the ways of that I
also don't really like insight being a
lie detector I think that's a dumb way
to use insight that's what zone of truth
is for so anyways I also often let
players take narrative control sometimes
normally like Matthew Mercer does
without how do you want to do this or
sometimes I'll just look at a player and
say take narrative control of this
situation basically this this comes all
up a lot in other games like like ten
candles or city of mist or things like
that basically I kind of make them the
DM for the moment just say tell me what
happens and you can control the
situation I'll let you do it and add
this kind of cool like cooperative
storytelling make-believe fantasy epic
moments of D&D that I think are really
fun so dams don't be afraid to give your
players a little bit of narrative
control you can always say no it's
boring
take 20 sorry Cody that's a rule from
from 3.5 I think it's dumb I think it
just takes away a lot of a challenge the
fact that you just go to a place into
today yeah spend an hour and take 20
it's like that's dumb you do have to
roll and you can re-roll depending on
what it is more often than not if it is
a strength decks or Constitution check
where you're trying to do something like
lift a boulder or jump over a chasm okay
so my camera died and I can't find the
charger so you guys get phone Jacob the
amount of how unprofessional this
channel is is staggering anyways what I
was saying with rolling was you can
always reroll strength dexterity and
Constitution checks but when it comes to
like intelligence wisdom or charisma you
only get like one shot especially with
intelligence because your character
knows things but they only get to try
once on intelligence and if they don't
know it and they haven't heard of it
before
and they can always learn so that's how
that works
the last two things one of them being
the help action you can always help
outside of combat but in order to help
somebody else you have to be proficient
in the skill already so if you aren't
proficient in save athletics and you
want to help somebody with it you can't
give them advantage and the last thing I
use and this is the only class thing
that I change because I hate it so much
and you all know what it is is goddamn
[__] piece of [__] counter
charm which it's an action and anybody
within 30 feet is no longer frightened
or charmed that's how it works paladins
can do it bards can do it - I don't give
a [__] ok guys that's the end of video I
hope you enjoyed this and sorry for this
dinky ending where I'm on my very shaky
phone go check out animated spells
really cool and I feel like I'm in a
vlog now later guys thanks YouTube I'll
make sure to hit that like and subscribe
oh [__] I hate this so much
that's the end of the video